Azure docs updates - Import (#20903)
pingcap/docs: tidb-cloud/import-csv-files.md

---
title: Import CSV Files from Cloud Storage into TiDB Cloud Dedicated
summary: Learn how to import CSV files from Amazon S3, GCS, or Azure Blob Storage into TiDB Cloud Dedicated.

> aliases: ['/tidbcloud/migrate-from-amazon-s3-or-gcs','/tidbcloud/migrate-from-aurora-bulk-import', '/tidb-cloud/import-csv-files']

Reviewer: ```suggestion
aliases: ['/tidbcloud/migrate-from-amazon-s3-or-gcs','/tidbcloud/migrate-from-aurora-bulk-import']
```

Reviewer: Adding aliases is not needed because the file name does not change

- To ensure data consistency, TiDB Cloud allows to import CSV files into empty tables only. To import data into an existing table that already contains data, you can use TiDB Cloud to import the data into a temporary empty table by following this document, and then use the `INSERT SELECT` statement to copy the data to the target existing table.

> - If a TiDB Cloud Dedicated cluster has a [changefeed](/tidb-cloud/changefeed-overview.md) or has [Point-in-time Restore](/tidb-cloud/backup-and-restore.md#turn-on-point-in-time-restore) enabled, you cannot import data to the cluster (the **Import Data** button will be disabled) because the current import data feature uses the [physical import mode](https://docs.pingcap.com/tidb/stable/tidb-lightning-physical-import-mode). In this mode, the imported data does not generate change logs, so the changefeed and Point-in-time Restore cannot detect the imported data.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- If a TiDB Cloud Dedicated cluster has a [changefeed](/tidb-cloud/changefeed-overview.md) or has [Point-in-time Restore](/tidb-cloud/backup-and-restore.md#turn-on-point-in-time-restore) enabled, you cannot import data to the cluster (the **Import Data** button will be disabled) because the current data import feature uses the [physical import mode](https://docs.pingcap.com/tidb/stable/tidb-lightning-physical-import-mode). In this mode, the imported data does not generate change logs, so the changefeed and Point-in-time Restore cannot detect the imported data.
```

    2. Click the name of your target cluster to go to its overview page, and then click **Import** in the left navigation pane.

> 2. Select **Import data from Cloud Storage**.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. Select **Import data from Cloud Storage**, and then click **Amazon S3**.
```

    - **Folder URI**: enter the source folder URI in the `gs://[bucket_name]/[data_source_folder]/` format. The path must end with a `/`.  For example, `gs://sampledata/ingest/`.
    - **Google Cloud Service Account ID**: TiDB Cloud provides a unique Service Account ID on this page (e.g., `example-service-account@your-project.iam.gserviceaccount.com`). You must grant this Service Account ID the necessary IAM permissions (such as "Storage Object Viewer") on your GCS bucket within your Google Cloud project. For detailed instructions, see [Configure GCS access](/tidb-cloud/dedicated-external-storage.md#configure-gcs-access).

4. Click **Connect**.

5. In the **Destination** section, select the target database and table.

    When importing multiple files, you can use **Advanced Settings** > **Mapping Settings** to customize the mapping of individual target tables to their corresponding CSV files. For each target database and table:
        - **Target Database**: select the corresponding database name from the list.
        - **Target Table**: select the corresponding table name from the list.

>         - **Source File URIs and Names**: enter the source complete URI, including the folder and file name, making sure it is in the following format `gs://[bucket_name]/[data_source_folder]/[file_name].csv`. You can also use wildcards (`?` and `*`) to match the source files. For example:
>             - `gs://mybucket/myfolder/my-data1.csv`: one CSV file named `my-data1.csv` in the folder `myfolder` will be imported into the target table.
>             - `gs://mybucket/myfolder/my-data?.csv`: all CSV files starting with `my-data` followed by one character (such as `my-data1.csv` and `my-data2.csv`) in `myfolder` will be imported into the same target table.
>             - `gs://mybucket/myfolder/my-data*.csv`: all CSV files in the folder starting with `my-data` (such as `mydata10.csv` and `my-data100.csv`) will be imported into the same target table.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
        - **Source File URIs and Names**: enter the full URI of the source file, including the folder and file name, making sure it is in the `gs://[bucket_name]/[data_source_folder]/[file_name].csv` format. You can also use wildcards (`?` and `*`) to match multiple files. For example:
            - `gs://mybucket/myfolder/my-data1.csv`: a single CSV file named `my-data1.csv` in `myfolder` will be imported into the target table.
            - `gs://mybucket/myfolder/my-data?.csv`: all CSV files starting with `my-data` followed by one character (such as `my-data1.csv` and `my-data2.csv`) in `myfolder` will be imported into the same target table.
            - `gs://mybucket/myfolder/my-data*.csv`: all CSV files starting with `my-data` (such as `my-data10.csv` and `my-data100.csv`) in `myfolder` will be imported into the same target table.
```

6. Click **Start Import**.

7. When the import progress shows **Completed**, check the imported tables.

</div>

<div label="Azure Blob Storage">

1. Open the **Import** page for your target cluster.

    1. Log in to the [TiDB Cloud console](https://tidbcloud.com/) and navigate to the [**Clusters**](https://tidbcloud.com/console/clusters) page of your project.

        > **Tip:**
        >
        > If you have multiple projects, you can click <MDSvgIcon name="icon-left-projects" /> in the lower-left corner and switch to another project.

    2. Click the name of your target cluster to go to its overview page, and then click **Import** in the left navigation pane.

2. Select **Import data from Cloud Storage**.

3. On the **Import Data from Azure Blob Storage** page, provide the following information:

    - **Included Schema Files**: if the source folder contains the target table schema files (e.g., `${db_name}-schema-create.sql`), select **Yes**. Otherwise, select **No**.
    - **Data Format**: select **CSV**.

>     - **Edit CSV Configuration**: if necessary, configure the options according to your CSV files. You can set the separator and delimiter characters, specify whether to use backslashes for escaped characters and indicate if your files contain a header row.
>     - **Folder URI**: enter the Azure Blob Storage URI where your source files are located using the format `https://[account_name].blob.core.windows.net/[container_name]/[data_source_folder]/`. The path must end with a `/`. For example, `https://myaccount.blob.core.windows.net/mycontainer/myfolder/`.
>     - **SAS Token**: enter an Account SAS token to allow TiDB Cloud to access the source files in your Azure Blob Storage container. If you don't have one yet, you can create it using the provided Azure ARM template by clicking on "Click here to create a new one with Azure ARM template" and following the instructions on the screen. Alternatively, you can manually create an Account SAS token. For more information, see [Configure Azure Blob Storage access](/tidb-cloud/dedicated-external-storage.md#configure-azure-blob-storage-access).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    - **Edit CSV Configuration**: if necessary, configure the options according to your CSV files. You can set the separator and delimiter characters, specify whether to use backslashes for escaped characters, and specify whether your files contain a header row.
    - **Folder URI**: enter the Azure Blob Storage URI where your source files are located using the format `https://[account_name].blob.core.windows.net/[container_name]/[data_source_folder]/`. The path must end with a `/`. For example, `https://myaccount.blob.core.windows.net/mycontainer/myfolder/`.
    - **SAS Token**: enter an account SAS token to allow TiDB Cloud to access the source files in your Azure Blob Storage container. If you don't have one yet, you can create it using the provided Azure ARM template by clicking **Click here to create a new one with Azure ARM template** and following the on-screen instructions. Alternatively, you can manually create an account SAS token. For more information, see [Configure Azure Blob Storage access](/tidb-cloud/dedicated-external-storage.md#configure-azure-blob-storage-access).
```

4. Click **Connect**.

5. In the **Destination** section, select the target database and table.

    When importing multiple files, you can use **Advanced Settings** > **Mapping Settings** to customize the mapping of individual target tables to their corresponding CSV files. For each target database and table:
        - **Target Database**: select the corresponding database name from the list.
        - **Target Table**: select the corresponding table name from the list.

>         - **Source File URIs and Names**: enter the source complete URI, including the folder and file name, making sure it is in the following format `https://[account_name].blob.core.windows.net/[container_name]/[data_source_folder]/[file_name].csv`. You can also use wildcards (`?` and `*`) to match the source files. For example:
>             - `https://myaccount.blob.core.windows.net/mycontainer/myfolder/my-data1.csv`: one CSV file named `my-data1.csv` in the folder `myfolder` will be imported into the target table.
>             - `https://myaccount.blob.core.windows.net/mycontainer/myfolder/my-data?.csv`: all CSV files starting with `my-data` followed by one character (such as `my-data1.csv` and `my-data2.csv`) in `myfolder` will be imported into the same target table.
>             - `https://myaccount.blob.core.windows.net/mycontainer/myfolder/my-data*.csv`: all CSV files in the folder starting with `my-data` (such as `mydata10.csv` and `my-data100.csv`) will be imported into the same target table.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
        - **Source File URIs and Names**: enter the full URI of the source file, including the folder and file name, making sure it is in the `https://[account_name].blob.core.windows.net/[container_name]/[data_source_folder]/[file_name].csv` format. You can also use wildcards (`?` and `*`) to match multiple files. For example:
            - `https://myaccount.blob.core.windows.net/mycontainer/myfolder/my-data1.csv`: a single CSV file named `my-data1.csv` in `myfolder` will be imported into the target table.
            - `https://myaccount.blob.core.windows.net/mycontainer/myfolder/my-data?.csv`: all CSV files starting with `my-data` followed by one character (such as `my-data1.csv` and `my-data2.csv`) in `myfolder` will be imported into the same target table.
            - `https://myaccount.blob.core.windows.net/mycontainer/myfolder/my-data*.csv`: all CSV files starting with `my-data` (such as `my-data10.csv` and `my-data100.csv`) in `myfolder` will be imported into the same target table.
```

> 6. Click **Start Import**. The import task will start and you can see its details and progress.
> 
> 7. When the import progress shows **Completed**, check the imported tables in the field **Tables Processed**.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
6. Click **Start Import**. 

7. When the import progress shows **Completed**, check the imported tables.
```

Reviewer: reason: to be consistent with instructions of importing from Azure

</div>

</SimpleTab>

> When you run an import task, if any unsupported or invalid conversions are detected, TiDB Cloud terminates the import job automatically and reports an importing error. You can visualize details in the **Status** field.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When you run an import task, if any unsupported or invalid conversions are detected, TiDB Cloud terminates the import job automatically and reports an importing error. You can view details in the **Status** field.
```

    2. Click the name of your target cluster to go to its overview page, and then click **Import** in the left navigation pane.

2. Select **Import data from Cloud Storage**.

3. On the **Import Data from Google Cloud Storage** page, provide the following information for the source CSV files:

    - **Included Schema Files**: if the source folder contains the target table schema files (such as `${db_name}-schema-create.sql`), select **Yes**. Otherwise, select **No**.
    - **Data Format**: select **CSV**.
    - **Edit CSV Configuration**: if necessary, configure the options according to your CSV files. You can set the separator and delimiter characters, specify whether to use backslashes for escaped characters, and specify whether your files contain a header row.

>     - **Folder URI**: enter the source folder URI in the `gs://[bucket_name]/[data_source_folder]/` format. The path must end with a `/`.  For example, `gs://sampledata/ingest/`.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    - **Folder URI**: enter the source folder URI in the `gs://[bucket_name]/[data_source_folder]/` format. The path must end with a `/`. For example, `gs://sampledata/ingest/`.
```

</div>

<div label="Azure Blob Storage">

1. Open the **Import** page for your target cluster.

    1. Log in to the [TiDB Cloud console](https://tidbcloud.com/) and navigate to the [**Clusters**](https://tidbcloud.com/console/clusters) page of your project.

        > **Tip:**
        >
        > If you have multiple projects, you can click <MDSvgIcon name="icon-left-projects" /> in the lower-left corner and switch to another project.

    2. Click the name of your target cluster to go to its overview page, and then click **Import** in the left navigation pane.

2. Click **Import Data** in the upper-right corner.

    If this is your first time importing data into this cluster, select **Import From Azure Blob Storage**.

3. On the **Import Data from Azure Blob Storage** page, provide the following information for the source CSV files:

>     - **Import File Count**: select **One file** or **Multiple files** as needed.

Reviewer: This option is not on the UI.
![image](https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/ad7fc52b-d739-4145-9382-255daac9e21c)

    - **Included Schema Files**: this field is only visible when importing multiple files. If the source folder contains the target table schemas, select **Yes**. Otherwise, select **No**.
    - **Data Format**: select **CSV**.

>     - **File URI** or **Folder URI**:

Reviewer: The UI only has "Folder URI"
